✅ LEGALLY NECESSARY FEATURES
1. Explicit Consent to Sign Electronically

Add a checkbox (not pre-checked) before signing that says:

“I agree to use electronic records and signatures, and I intend to sign this document electronically.”

2. User Authentication / Identity Verification

Choose at least one of the following:

Email-based verification (send a code before signing)

Login system with unique usernames/passwords

Signer’s name + email required before signing

Also log:

IP address

Device/browser (optional but nice)

3. Signature Capture

Offer one or more of:

Drawn signature (canvas input)

Typed signature (with name & font style)

Upload signature image (less secure but usable)

Make sure the user confirms the action (e.g., clicks "Sign Now").

4. Timestamping

Record the exact date and time of signature:

const timestamp = new Date().toISOString();


Store it along with:

Signer name

Email

IP

Signature

5. Document Locking / Finalization

After signing:

Make the document read-only

Generate a PDF copy of the signed document

Libraries to use:

pdf-lib (JavaScript)

jspdf

html-pdf for Node.js

Optionally: generate a hash of the final document using SHA-256 and store it for verification

6. Download & Email Signed Document

After signing:

Allow user to download the PDF

Email them a copy for their records

⚡BONUS: TRUST-BUILDING FEATURES (Highly Recommended)
✅ Audit Trail / Signature Log

Show or store:

Who signed

When they signed

How they authenticated

IP address

Version of the document signed (hash it!)

✅ Visual Confirmation

Add a visual signature block:

Signed by John Smith  
john@example.com  
IP: 123.45.67.89  
Signed on: 2026-01-28 at 4:52 PM UTC

✅ Signature Certificate Page (optional but professional)

At the end of the PDF, attach a page like:

This document was signed electronically by John Smith (john@example.com
) on January 28, 2026, via IP 123.45.67.89 using Replit Contract Platform.

🛡️ Legal Disclaimer Section

Somewhere near the bottom:

This electronic signature is legally binding under the U.S. E-SIGN Act and UETA, and similar international laws where applicable.